automotive/vehicle/aidl/impl/utils/README.md, before:

# Utility classes for VHAL implementation
---

This directory stores utility classes for VHAL implementation. Vendor
implementation could use utility classes from `common` folder in their
VHAL implementation.

## common

Defines common utility libraries.

### ConcurrentQueue

Provides a thread-safe concurrent queue object. Useful for adding object to
a queue in one thread (usually binder thread) and handle the objects in a
separate handler thread.

### ParcelableUtils

Provides functions to convert between a regular parcelable and a
`LargeParcelabe`.

A `LargeParcelable` is a parcelable that marshals the payload
into a shared memory file if the payload is too large to pass across binder.
It is used to pass large data across binder. Before sending the data, VHAL
impl should convert a regular parcelabe to a `LargeParcelable`. After receving
data, VHAL impl should convert a `LargeParcelable` back to regular parcelabe.

### PendingRequestPool

Defines A class for managing pending requests and automatically call timeout
callback if the request timed-out.

### PropertyUtils

Defines some useful constants.

### RecurrentTimer

Defines a thread-safe recurrent timer that can call a function periodically.

### VehicleHalTypes

Provides a header file that includes many commonly used header files. Useful
when you are using multiple types defined in VHAL interface.

### VehicleObjectPool

Defines a reusable in-memory pool for `VehiclePropValue`.

### VehiclePropertyStore

Defines an in-memory map for storing vehicle properties. Allows easier insert,
delete and lookup.

### VehicleUtils

Defines many useful utility functions.

## test

Defines utility libraries for test only.

Commit message:

Use AIDL for test vendor properties.
Use AIDL enum instead of hard coding the test vendor property
definitions so that we don't have to duplicate the value among VHAL
and the clients. This also shows how vendor can uses a custom AIDL
enum to define vendor properties.

Test: atest FakeVehicleHardwareTest
Bug: 296913406
Change-Id: Ief889b86bfbef136f8afd4a4f49405f2213b441c

automotive/vehicle/aidl/impl/utils/README.md, after:

# Utility classes for VHAL implementation
---

This directory stores utility classes for VHAL implementation. Vendor
implementation could use utility classes from `common` folder in their
VHAL implementation.

## common

Defines common utility libraries.

### ConcurrentQueue

Provides a thread-safe concurrent queue object. Useful for adding object to
a queue in one thread (usually binder thread) and handle the objects in a
separate handler thread.

### ParcelableUtils

Provides functions to convert between a regular parcelable and a
`LargeParcelabe`.

A `LargeParcelable` is a parcelable that marshals the payload
into a shared memory file if the payload is too large to pass across binder.
It is used to pass large data across binder. Before sending the data, VHAL
impl should convert a regular parcelabe to a `LargeParcelable`. After receving
data, VHAL impl should convert a `LargeParcelable` back to regular parcelabe.

### PendingRequestPool

Defines A class for managing pending requests and automatically call timeout
callback if the request timed-out.

### PropertyUtils

Defines some useful constants.

### RecurrentTimer

Defines a thread-safe recurrent timer that can call a function periodically.

### VehicleHalTypes

Provides a header file that includes many commonly used header files. Useful
when you are using multiple types defined in VHAL interface.

### VehicleObjectPool

Defines a reusable in-memory pool for `VehiclePropValue`.

### VehiclePropertyStore

Defines an in-memory map for storing vehicle properties. Allows easier insert,
delete and lookup.

### VehicleUtils

Defines many useful utility functions.

## test_vendor_properties

Contains vendor properties used for testing purpose in reference VHAL.
